[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's just quickly
go over the exercises from before lunch.
So these are our array
exercises where we're
practicing creating data structure for
our e-farming application.
And this is gonna be a collection
of our animal users.
You can imagine your application, if you
have different pages you'll have perhaps
user profile page,
if you think of your Facebook profile,
that would be the model or
our first object from step 1, the object's
portion, and
then there's the portion where maybe you
have a browse, where you can browse
the different users on your website, or
a search function where you
would then have a collection of
all these different users
shown on that page.
And so this would be like different
scenarios where you'd be using either
just a model data structure,
versus your whole collection,
which would be an array user models.
Any questions on sort of just that
general concepts of sort of how to
architect your data in
a way that makes sense for
the view that's gonna correspond to
the situation that you're gonna use it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right.
Did you have a question?
No.
>> Student 1: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
So, I'm just gonna quickly go
over some of the exercises.
So here we're creating a noise array,
and we're just adding,
we're adding a string there called purr.
Notice this is just like
the object literal notation where
we can just add it in there.
If you wanted to do two,
we can just say, I don't know.
I don't know what's a sound?
What's a sound?
>> Student 2: Oink.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Oink.
Okay, so we have a cat, also oinks.
So just like in our
object literal notation
you can see we have our values
separated by commas, and
that we just put them directly into
the brackets the corresponding brackets.
And that's array literal notation,
same as or
really similar to object literal
notation in so far as you can just
automatically add your values in there,
you don't necessarily have to use bracket
notation to add them or
a method like shift or unshift.
I'm sorry, unshift or push.
Cool, so and here we are we're
using unshift for our noise array.
What does this method do?
>> Student 3: Put's it
in the first position?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
So unshift will have your array and it
will put that value at the first position.
So everything will be shifted over once.
And the 0F would then
be whatever you passed.
And so this is, unshift is what we
would call a native array method.
So it's a function on the array.
That comes out of the box with JavaScript.
And then push is another one
of those array methods, and
again, a method is just a function.
And we can tell that this is a function,
right,
cuz we're calling it with those
two parentheses right there.
Just like we would call a regular function
if you said var x equals function, And
you returned whatever and you wanted to
call it, you'd just say x parentheses.
Just like, I don't have mine.
Just like this.
So var x equals a function.
Right?
And if we were to call that
function we would just
do that by having two
trailing parentheses.
Right and
if we said var obj equals our object.
And then we said obj.x
we have our function.
Uh-oh.
Maybe it doesn't like that it's empty.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
And so just like, we can call x by itself,
like this, right,
we can also just call it
on the object the same way.
So that's all our array methods are.
And then here on line 15, we are just
adding using backend notation and
a number and
we're just adding the value, growl.
And so then we can console
log our noisearray.length.
And what is that gonna log?
How about, who haven't, how about Kashore?
What is this line gonna log?
>> Kashore: 4.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Close,
it's five because I added an extra one.
Yeah so
this gonna console.log then five.5 And
then if you want-
>> Student 3: If it's noiseArray[3],
is that gonna replace meow?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You're right,
yep you're right, it would be 4.
>> Student 3: Do we get a point for that,
for-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
extra points, yeah.
So many points, bonus points.
And a gold star.
Okay.
So line 20, console log we're just
inspecting our array and
our array is gonna look
something like this and so animal.noises.
We then added a noise array and
what's happening here is we're
just overriding that empty array.
So we're not actually adding
something to the previous array,
we're just completely overriding it.
When we see this equal sign,
that's not augmenting,
it's not adding or anything like that.
It's just gonna completely override it.
So that is something important to keep in
mind and now you can see your animal has
its user name, tagline, and
also this array, the property name noises.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
any questions on that so far?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, okay.
So, then here we go,
we have our animals collection.
Which we're just gonna
initialize as an empty array.
And then, what this is gonna be is it's
gonna be an array of animal objects.
And so we have our first
animal that we're pushing on,
which if you remember is the cat Mittens,
and
then we're gonna take quackers and
we're gonna add quackers to where?
>> Student 1: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To the end, mm-hm.
So that's actually It's
gonna be the length.
The length is the last index.
Or is the last index plus one, so
this would be the same as
saying array.push, for example.
You might even imagine that that's
what array.push does under the hood.
It wouldn't hurt you.
And then console.log(animals)
just to check to see where
you are to see what your expecting and
it should print out something like this.
So you see we have an array,
and then inside of the array
we have one object here.
And then we have the start
of another object here.
And then again we can create
our object dog with our,
just using object literal notation and
then we can create honey badger and we're
gonna be using all dot notation here.
And also, then we can use the push method,
which can take more than one argument.
And here's where that
array.length metaphor breaks down
because you can have
more than one argument.
And then you can console log animals,
length and then you have four.
And that's how you create a collection.
Has anyone used Backbone before?
A little bit.
So this might sound a little bit familiar.
I work with a lot of Backbone, and
this is how you can envision the models
and the collections in Backbone.
And also general MVC concepts.
Cool, any questions about these
exercises before I move on to functions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Good?
Thumbs, nice.
Awesome.